This is the story of my own personal analog to digital conversion and the lessons I learned from it. I am a geeky guy. When I was a kid I loved electronics. I built guitar effects in my bedroom. I also had various degrees of home brew stereos. When I got home from school I used to always put on "Love Rollercoaster" by the Ohio Players. When I got wheels (an otherwise regrettable Dodge Omni) I had a partly homebrew sound system in that as well. My sweetheart and I used to drive from Barrie to Waterloo for night school courses. On the way we talked and listened to Queen, The Steve Miller Band and Bonnie Tyler. 

"Fast forward to a few years later." We started a family and things started to get real. My then 3 year old and his friend wrecked my turntable. My records dissapeared. My kids got older and we got into videos as well as their own musical tastes. Even basic sound systems in cars got way better and we went on lots of road trips for soccer hockey to visit Granny in Calgary and to summer camp and the Lake St. Joe club where our kids had summer jobs. We have a lot of media. Probably just as well we lost our cassette and VHS tapes during that time when it was all hands on deck just getting our kids where they needed to be. Now our kids aren't and we have grandkids my sweetheart and I are bringing back media to our lives.

I can remember my own parents buying a stereo when we all moved out. In true twenty something naievety I referred to them as latent yuppies. Sorry Mom and Dad. A few years later we visited our eldest Tim and his wife Fleur in Australia and they had just bought themselves a record player. It was really fun going through op shops as he called them and finding records. When my sweetheart and I moved out of our family house so that our daughter could use it for her family it was our turn to get a record player. I went to a stereo store in Brantford where I was teaching at Laurier and bought a record player. He tried to sell me a tuner and speakers as well, but I am glad that I resisted.

The first incarnation of my media system was built on the ~$150 record player which had a built in preamp like Tim's. I got $150 Bose bookshelf computer speakers with 2 analog 3/8" stereo inputs and played the record player through a 3/8 " male to rca female x 2 cable into one of those. I bought a cheap < $100 hdmi switch with a digital to analog converter (DAC) to plug in to the other analog input of the Bose powered speakers. I got an HDMI conversion cable for an IPOD that I already had and a ~$150 blueray player and I was set. I think that I also needed a male to male standard hdmi cable as the switch didn't come with one. I used Itunes, the CBC apps and TuneIn Radio for digital media, found records and CDs everywhere. and was very happy with the results. To organize the media we got a book shelf from Ikea. We got a nice Palliser couch with a hide a bed to watch from.

Things got real again, we moved and we "cut the cable." No cable TV and no landline. Only internet. My youngest son, Joel, and I nearly dropped the couch moving it. Sadly the bookshelf didn't survive the move. After buying a house, moving again and wall mounting system 1 in our bedroom I was ready for system 2. To prepare for system 2 we replaced the HDMI switch in system 1 with an hdmi audio splitter and the bluray player with a Chromecast. When we "cut the cable" I got our original phone number ported to VOIP.ms. For a while for our home phone we used Zoiper on 
